
extension from company
https://www.joomlaxtc.com/support/extension/extension-guides/rs2gallery-image-wall


RS2Gallery Image Wall
Description
Display any image from RSGallery 2 component using custom search criteria in templates with paging and animation capabilities.

Installation
Install the module using the regular Joomla! extension installer.

Configuration
The module can be customized using the standard Joomla! Module Manager.

Parameters are divided in two main sections: The Module Parameters section defines what data will be shown and how it should be presented. The Advanced Parameters allows you to configure the special effects and animations, if any were used. These parameters won't affect the data, but they can affect their display form.

To access these parameters go to the module manager and select the RS Gallery 2 Image Wall Module

Module Parameters
Module parametersUse these parameters to customize the standard presentation of the module, they are divided in different sections as follows:

Selection Parameters
- Use these parameters to select what galleries to show:
Owner	Use this parameter to filter images by owner of the gallery.
Gallery	With this parameter you can select the specific gallery (or galleries) to include.
Sort field	Select the criteria for the ordering of the images.
Sort order	Use this parameter to set sort order descending or ascending.
Gallery types	This parameter specifies the type of gallery to include.


Display Parameters
- Use these parameters to customize the layout of the module box.

The layout consists of a grid made up with one or more pages of pictures organized in rows and/or columns.

Columns	Number of columns to show.
Rows	Number of rows to show.
Pages	Number of pages to show. Transition effects are enabled between page changes.
Display Style	Special effects applied to the layout. Window modes work with one page only, all others require multiple pages of content to perform transitions between them.
Window Width	Width (in pixels) of the window frame when using a Window special effect.
Window Height	Height (in pixels) of the window frame when using a Window special effect.
Transition pause	Pause time between page transitions in milliseconds. A value of -1 disables automatic transitions. Default value is: 4000.
Transition duration	Page transition effect duration in milliseconds (default: 1500).
Slide orientation	Slide transition orientation.
Transition type	Transition animation type.
Transition Ease mode	Ease in - Ease out - Ease in out


Module Dislplay Configuration
- Use this parameters to define who you want to display the module.

Button Style	Button graphic set to use when buttons tags are enabled.
Template	To select one of our predesigned template. NOTE: Select -None selected- if want to use Module HTML template and Main Content HTML template fields.
Module HTML template	HTML/CSS code to display the overall module box. You can embed any of the following tags:
{leftbutton}	Draws a "Left/Back/Previous" button.
{mainarea}	This tag draws the main layout area block, including the special effects.
{pages}	Displays a numbered page list for quick browsing.
{rightbutton}	Draws a "Right/Forward/Next" button.
Main Content HTML template	HTML/CSS code to display each item. You can embed any of the following tags to display article information:
{title}	This tag will be transformed in the title that the image has set.
{author}	Use to show the owner of the image.
{description}	Use to display the description of the image.
{galleryname}	This tag shows the name of the gallery that contains the current image.
{gallerydescription}	Use to display the description of the gallery that contains the current image.
{date}	This tag will show the date when the image was added.
{date m-d-Y}	This tag will show the date when the image was added, but, with the date format that you set inside the tag.
{displayimageurl}	This tag is transformed in the URL to the image in display size.
{displayimage}	This tag will show the display image, the size is controlled for the parameters Picture Width and Picture Height.
{thumbnailurl}	Use to get the url to the thumbnail of the image.
{thumbnail}	This tag shows the thumbnail image, the size is controlled for the Thumbnail Width and Thumbnail Height parameters.
{originalimageurl}	This tag will show the url to the original picture that you upload to your site.
{originalimage}	This tag will show the original image that you upload to your site with the size set for Picture Width and Picture Height parameters.
{rslink}	Use this tag to get the url to the RS Gallery Picture Item.
{downloadurl}	This url can be used to allow to the visitors to download the image that the module is show.
{gallerylink}	Use this tag to get the url to the RS Gallery Item.
{hits}	Use to see the number of hits of the image.
{votes}	With this tag you be able to see the number of votes of the image.
{rating}	Use to see the rating of the image.
Enable hover information?	Set in yes to enable the Hover HTML parameter.
Hover HTML	HTML/CSS code to display each element. You can embed any of the supported tags listed in the Main Content HTML template parameter.
Picture Width	The width that want for the image.
Picture Height	The height that want for the image.
Thumbnail Width	The width that want for the thumbnail of the image.
Thumbnail Height	The height that want for the thumbnail of image.
Hover Thumbnail width	The width that want for the thumbnail of image. This parameter only takes effect in the tag set into Hover HTML parameter.
Hover Thumbnail height	The height that want for the thumbnail of image. This parameter only takes effect in the tag set into Hover HTML parameter.
Description Length	Maximum length for description to display. Empty = no limit.
Gallery Description Length	Maximum length for gallery description to display. Empty = no limit.
Date format	Date format (using PHP date function). Default is: Y-m-d
Module Class Suffix	A suffix to be applied to the CSS class of the module.
Advanced Parameters
Module advanced parametersThese parameters control the behavior of special content effects, please read the next section for more information about content effects and how to apply them.

Z layer	Define the z-index layer to use for the special effect content.

Tooltip / Pop-Up FX Settings - Use these parameters to customize the Tooltip and Pop-Up effects:

In Opacity	The opacity of the tooltip/pop-up when the mouse enters the trigger zone. A value of 0 will make the display transparent while a value of 1 will make it opaque, values range from 0 to 1 in decimal increments.
Out Opacity	The opacity of the tooltip/pop-up when the mouse leaves the trigger zone. A value of 0 will make the display transparent while a value of 1 will make it opaque, values range from 0 to 1 in decimal increments.
In Animation Vertical	The distance the tooltip/pop-up will move vertically (in pixels) when the mouse enters the trigger zone.
Out Animation Vertical	The distance the tooltip/pop-up will move vertically (in pixels) when the mouse leaves the trigger zone.
In Animation Horizontal	The distance the tooltip/pop-up will move horizontally (in pixels) when the mouse enters the trigger zone.
Out Animation Horizontal	The distance the tooltip/pop-up will move horizontally (in pixels) when the mouse leaves the trigger zone.
Fade-in Duration	The duration of the "In" animation when the mouse pointer enters the trigger zone (in milliseconds).
Fade-Out duration	The duration of the "Out" animation when mouse pointer leaves the trigger zone (in milliseconds).
Pause	The time the tooltip/pop-up will be shown between the "In" animation and the "Out" animation (in milliseconds).
Tooltip animation mode	Select one of the many Moo functions to perform animations.
Tooltip / Popup ease mode	The transition type. All transitions, except for "linear" transition, can be combined with a "Transition Ease".
Centered Popup	Set this to "Yes" if you want pop-up effect displays to appear centered in the browser window.

Slide FX Settings - These parameters control the "Slide" content effect:

Sliding Panels Settings	Choose an animation style from the list.
Note: The following Settings are used ONLY when Slide Panels Settings is set to CUSTOM:
Slide Panel X in	The distance (in pixels) from the left trigger zone border that the slide panel will go to when the mouse enters the trigger zone.
Slide Panel X out	The distance (in pixels) from the left trigger zone border that the slide panel will go to when the mouse leaves the trigger zone.
Slide Panel Y in	The distance (in pixels) from the top trigger zone border that the slide panel will go to when the mouse enters the trigger zone.
Slide Panel Y out	The distance (in pixels) from the top trigger zone border that the slide panel will go to when the mouse leaves the trigger zone.
Slide animation mode	Select one of the many Moo functions to animate the slide effects.
Slide ease mode	Choose how to apply the animation effect. This setting is not used when "Slide Animation Mode" is set to Linear.
Frames per Second	The frames per second used to animate the effect. Note: Using a high value in a heavy site could decrease the video performance. Combine this setting with "Frame Duration" to get a smooth effect.
Fame Duration	The time (in milliseconds) the duration will last.

Hover FX Settings - These Parameters Control the Hover Effect:

Hover Effect in Color	The background color that will fade in when mouse enter the element with class="js_hover".
Hover Effect Out Color	The background color that will fade out when mouse leaves the element with class="js_hover".
Special Effects
Besides the page transition effects, you can also include additional effects that apply to the content of each item. By adding certain CSS tags to your HTML code and organizing the layout of content, these effects allow you to build fully customizable tooltips, pop-ups and slide effects. Since all the content data tags are available on these effects as well, you can elaborate the display of your content as much as you want!

Keep in mind however, that with great power comes great responsibility: the HTML of both zones is still part of the HTML code of your page; if your HTML/CSS code has a bug, it may affect how other parts of your site look and work.

Content effects are activated by the user's mouse pointer but with subtle differences. How you can implement each effect and how they are activated is explained below:

Tooltips
A Tooltip will appear automatically when the mouse pointer hovers over a specific "trigger zone", this example code explains better how to use the necessary tags:

Code Sample

Sample Effect

<div class="jxtctooltip">
This is the tooltip trigger zone
    <div class="tip">
        This is the tooltip content
    </div>
</div>
This is the tooltip trigger zone
Upon display, this code will show the "This is the tooltip trigger zone" legend by itself, but if you move the mouse pointer over it, a tooltip will come up displaying the "This is the tooltip content" legend. Each zone is wrapped within a tag, you must use the CSS tags "jxtctooltip" and "tip" as shown to make the effect work.

Pop-ups
A pop-up will appear when the user clicks on the "trigger zone", the Pop-up zone has its own Close and Drag buttons. This example code shows the necessary CSS tags in use:

Code Sample

Sample Effect

<div class="popuphover">
This is the pop-up trigger zone
    <div class="pop">
        This is the pop-up content
    </div>
</div>

This is the pop-up trigger zone
The trigger zone is made with the contents of the div with class "popuphover", and the pop-up content is hidden in the div with class "pop", it will be shown when the user clicks on the trigger zone.

Slides
Slides are useful to display content in different layers, for example imagine a picture with a footnote that expands to show a full description. Different than Tooltips or Pop-ups, Slides do not use a trigger zone, they react to mouse pointer over their own zones. This is an example code:

Code Sample

Sample Effect

<div class="slidebox">
This is the content zone
    <div class="slidepanel">
        This is the slide content zone
    </div>
</div>

This is the content zone
This is the slide content zone
Again, the container zone inside the div with CSS class "slidebox" will be shown first, and the contents of the slide on div "slidepanel" will be shown when the mouse hovers its zone.

Hover
The Hover is useful when you want to focus on specific zone of the content, for example a "clickable" zone that looks similar to other content, an image or name that want to highlight. Similar to Slides, they react to mouse pointer over their own zones and does not need a trigger zone. This is an example code:

Code Sample

Sample Effect

This is the content zone
<div class="js_hover">
    The content with highlight
</div>
This is the rest of content zone

This is the content zone
The content with highlight
This is the rest of content zone
Once the mouse is over the js_hover zone the color will change automatically. As you can see this is the easier effect but provide you the power to catch the attention of your visitors.

Styling
As previously explained, the content is rendered in a grid fashion with one or more rows and columns and one or more pages, each page represents a single grid. Each cell in a grid contains the template code for one item with the placeholder tags translated to their corresponding data element such as titles, descriptions, images, etc.

In order to ease the visual styling of the grids, there are certain common CSS classes added to the HTML code for your convenience. You can put hard-coded CSS styling in the XTS template fields directly, but you may find using your template's CSS file a better option.

If you can't or don't want to alter your main CSS file, you can put any CSS code needed in the module's own file: css/wall.css. This file is located inside the module folder.

This is a brief explanation on how the HTML and classes are applied:

Each page in the module output is made with an HTML tag; the first table has CSS class firstpage, any inner pages have class centerpage and the last page has class lastpage. If there is only one page then it has class singlepage.

Each row within a table also has similar classes added to it: firstrow for the top row in the table, centerrow for any middle rows and lastrow for the bottom row of content. In the event that only a single row is used, it will have class singlerow assigned to it. These clases are repeated for as many tables (pages) are in the module output.

Likewise, columns also have similar tags: the left-most column has firstcol, the right-most column has lastcol and any middle column has centercol. Single columns have, you guessed it, singlecol. These classes are also applied on all pages shown.

Buttons also have extra CSS classes: prevbutton and nextbutton apply to the tags for each page change button. Page number buttons have tags as well: firstbutton, middlebutton, lastbutton and centerbutton.

You can have a common set of CSS styling code for these tags in your template's CSS file to maintain a consistent appearance on any modules being shown, or you can use them in combination with the module CSS class parameter to define specific styling for a particular module.

With these many options, the styling possibilities are unlimited! You are in total control of how the content will be shown in your site, just let the module handle the content gathering for you.

Examples:
As configuration examples, take a look at these parameter setups from our demo pages:

RS Wall Pop Up Demo
RS Wall Slide Demo
RS Wall Tool Tip Demo
RS Wall Lightbox Demo
RS Wall Featured Demo