
Handy seo tools

jch optimize: speed
sh404sef: URL Optimization
screamingfrog: crawling 

You are running SEO service and you choose Joomla to build your website.  Why  do you choose Joomla to stick with?
Yes – as mentioned, our smaller customers all use Joomla! due to its rich extension culture, helping us to deliver tailored solutions for them. 
Having dealt with Joomla! for years, made my team and I gain a lot of experience in the server-side technical optimization measures with Joomla!. Also, security and code cleanliness is an issue to us. From experience, we can say that Joomla!-systems tend to be safer if managed correctly than WordPress installations for example. 
The SEO features of Joomla! could need a new router – which will luckily be provided in Joomla! 3.6. Other than that, there are many extensions that can be used to deal with SEO. sh404SEF is one of the ones that I like. I use JCH-Optimize for speed optimizations and sh404SEF for url optimization. Along that, I often optimize pages by crawling them manually with the ScreamingFrog SEO Spider or other tools that come in handy. The Frog allows you to crawl 500 urls for free, by the way.

In general, I would like the SEO features to be a little bit more part of the core of Joomla!.  Next to that, a better cache-recache organization (core wise) would be helpful to have pages that are fast when first opened.
As many of the core developers are close to us in Cologne or Germany in general, we believe there could be changes coming in the foreseeable future!
Do you have any tip to share about Joomla search engine optimization?
One of Joomla!’s problems in optimization for search engines is that you have to be really careful which pages you want in the index and which not. Ideally, you have one page that deals with exactly one keyword and its semantic close words (also proof keywords). If you push too many useless pages into the index, this hurts quality scores of your page. 
To check, if really the pages are in index that I want, I often go to Google and enter “site:[yourdomain]” to let Google show my which pages are in index. If there are useless pages (no keyword focus, not good as a landing page for the user), I tend to delete or noindex-follow or status code 410 (gone) them. 




