The RSGallery2 team is pleased to announce the release of RSGallery2 4.0.6 for Joomla 3.x.
RSGallery2 4.0.6 for Joomla 3.x released

The RSGallery2 team is pleased to announce the release of RSGallery2 4.0.6 for Joomla 3.x.

Since the home of our downloads and sourcecode Joomlacode will close down, as of version 4.x for Joomla 3.x we have moved the sourcecodes to Github (https://github.com/RSGallery2). Older versions are still available on Joomlacode, and a "legacy repository" on Github is made will all older sourcecodes.
Description

RSGallery2 is a full featured, easy to use, highly customisable, gallery component for Joomla!

Users can upload their images via frontend and backend, via single file upload, batch upload or ftp upload. Galleries containing images can have as many (nested) subgalleries as you want. Galleries and images can be moved around easily. Three graphics libraries, used to make display and thumbnail images, are supported: GD2, ImageMagick and Netpbm. Images can have a watermark. Images can be regenerated after the settings for display image size and thumbnail image size are changed. The site administrator can set permissions for usergroups to be allowed to upload images, create galleries, edit, delete, (un)publish both images and galleries, vote and comment on images, just like the permissions for Joomla core components are set. View access for galleries can be set by the site administrator just like view acces for Joomla Categories. The look and feel can be customised by creating your own RSGallery2 templates.

RSGallery2 has been around since the Mambo days and was originally developed by Ronald Smit. Since then, RSGallery2 has evolved into what it is nowadays.

Support/discussions: www.rsgallery2.nl!

RSGallery2 has always been a free extension and will always be a free extension! We're all volunteers! So if you want to help out, you are most welcome!
Upgrade instructions

Create a full backup of your files and database, as always before making changes to your site.
Note: upgrade will automatically overwrite all RSGallery2 system files, but it will leave your images untouched. So if you made any changes to the templates that are shipped with RSGallery2 they will be overwritten! You either have to backup the template or redo any custom changes after upgrading. Also, the comments in the database will be converted from BBCode format to HTML format.

On Joomla 2.5
Go to the Backend > Extensions > Install/Uninstall > Browse… (find the downloaded file) > Click Upload File & Install
Instructions for new installation of RSGallery2

Create a full backup of your files and database, as always before making changes to your site.

On Joomla 2.5:
Backend > Extensions > Extension Manager > Browse... > Upload File & Install
